README.MD, before:

# Berties Books

In this lab, I extended my Node.js web application, berties-books, by integrating it with a MySQL database. I started by installing MySQL on my local computer and creating a new database. Then, I set up the tables and inserted some data. I practiced executing SQL statements to explore the schema and the data it contains. After that, I queried the database from my Node.js application to display books. Finally, I installed MySQL on my virtual server and deployed my application, connecting it to the database.

## Technologies Used

Node.js - Running the Server with node.js

EJS (Embedded JavaScript Templates) – Templating engine used to generate dynamic HTML pages

Express Framework - Manages Routing requests

JavaScript - The Programming Language

HTML - Displays the Web Application in the Browser

CSS – Used to style the webpages

SQL - Used to Interact with Databases

## How to Install and Run Locally

1. Clone the Repository You can clone the repository by typing the command below: git clone https://github.com/schou008/06_berties_33798394 cd 06_berties_33798394

2. Install Node.js if you have not, you can do this from nodejs.org. 

If you have already installed Node.js you can skip this step

3. Install the Express Framework, you can do this by typing in the command below: npm install express

If you already have the express framework then you can skip this step

4. Install the EJS Package, you can do this by typing in the command below: npm install ejs 

If you already have the EJS package then you can skip this step

5. run npm install mysql2

6. Run the Web Application You can run the web application by typing the command below: node index.js

7. Open your Browser Type in http://localhost:8000 in the search bar, you should see the web application

Commit message:

Updated Code to Allow User Password Hashing

README.MD, after:

# Berties Books

In Week 6, I extended my Node.js web application, berties-books, by integrating it with a MySQL database. I started by installing MySQL on my local computer and creating a new database. Then, I set up the tables and inserted some data. I practiced executing SQL statements to explore the schema and the data it contains. After that, I queried the database from my Node.js application to display books. Finally, I installed MySQL on my virtual server and deployed my application, connecting it to the database.

In Week 7, 

## Technologies Used

Node.js - Running the Server with node.js

EJS (Embedded JavaScript Templates) – Templating engine used to generate dynamic HTML pages

Express Framework - Manages Routing requests

JavaScript - The Programming Language

HTML - Displays the Web Application in the Browser

CSS – Used to style the webpages

SQL - Used to Interact with Databases

bcrypt - Password Hashing 

## How to Install and Run Locally

1. Clone the Repository You can clone the repository by typing the command below: git clone https://github.com/schou008/06_berties_33798394 cd 06_berties_33798394

2. Install Node.js if you have not, you can do this from nodejs.org. 

If you have already installed Node.js you can skip this step

3. Install the Express Framework, you can do this by typing in the command below: npm install express

If you already have the express framework then you can skip this step

4. Install the EJS Package, you can do this by typing in the command below: npm install ejs 

If you already have the EJS package then you can skip this step

5. run npm install mysql2

6. run npm install bcrypt 

7. Run the Web Application You can run the web application by typing the command below: node index.js

8. Open your Browser Type in http://localhost:8000 in the search bar, you should see the web application
